** my AJAX MMORPG:
   -- The only "story" should be emergent from player interactions.  That's
      where the only "role-playing" in an MMORPG happens, anyway... the
      drama on the message boards is more of a role-playing game than WoW
      itself could ever be.  So this is about *social* experience design.
   -- de-emphasize killing stuff.  Make it fairly low-detail, only one way
      out of many to solve a problem, fairly dangerous to the player...
      Almost like fighting is an optional sub-game that you can choose to
      engage in or not!  Stealth and diplomacy occur as commonly applicable
      alternatives.
   -- but PCs don't get killed.  They get "captured", or have their items
      stolen, or they get turned into frogs, or something that leads to a
      new set of problems.
      (Or being "injured" is a non-trivial penalty that can't be instantly
       dismissed, and only happens if you lose a fight pretty badly.  So
       being injured is not just hit points; it feels serious.)
   -- you have to rely on other players.  You have to rely on other players
      like crazy.  Most things in the game should be actually impossible
      to achieve without significant player interaction.  And then we need to
      encourage asking for help.  Like, if you're turned into a frog you
      can very easily send a message to some central "HELP WANTED" message 
      board.  And a player who's looking for a quest reads that and sees
      who they might be able to help.  Maybe when you post a help request,
      you can set what you're offering as a reward.  And if you don't have
      anything, you can of course always offer "friendship", or help later
      with skills, or other intangibles.
   -- Certain actions take a long amount of real-time to complete.  That's to
      give you a good reason to sign off an get away from the game!!
      (Oh, and you should be able to queue them up.  And get emails when they
       are complete!)
   -- encourage player creativity; let them make, like, a little profile
      page for their character that other people can see, and let them write
      a blurb about who their character is.  Then let other people who think
      it's cool put stars on their profile page, or something.  Let them
      design what their character looks like, too; let them pursue skills,
      invent things, build boats and sail away to explore, build kingdoms,
      etc. 
   -- in GNS terms this should be something like player-empowered, emergent
      SIM.
   -- Newbie-friendliness:  You should be able to make a character with
      little investment and play some introductory bit to see if you're
      interested in the game.  The introductory bit should (somehow!) lead
      you toward choosing your own goals.
   -- Actually, the game interface should include lots of subtle and not-so-
      subtle nudges to the player that the idea here is to invent a goal for
      their character, not so much to win all the pre-written challenges.

   -- What is an RPG anyway?  Starting from the game-design perspective,
      there has to be some kind of gap in the rules cycle that is only
      bridged by players negotiating about the content of the fiction.
     That is, "an rpg is a game where the fiction is part of the rules",
      aka the Fruitful Void.  This is what separates it from just playing
      Warhammer and then telling a story *about* your game.  Every MMORPG
      that I know of is just like doing that -- you can invent a persona
      for your character and you can describe it to other players, but
      it's got no mechanical weight.  To make the jump into RPG-land, there
      has to be some way to give mechanical weight to purely fictional
      inventions, that are the result of open-ended player creativity and
      not just choices between built-in options.

   -- Sushu's brilliant idea:  You have relationships on your character
      sheet -- "Friends with", "Enemies with", etc.  (you can also write
      additional Color detail on each one.)  When you create your
      character, you MUST have a relationship with an existing player
      character.  (most likely, the player who introduced you to the game;
      if you're just discovering the game yourself, there's a social
      interface to let you find a sponsor.)  This ensures that newbies
      to the game are not just left in the cold.

      (Maybe "friends with" and "enemies with" have specific mechanical
       effects, but can only be entered into by player mutual agreement?)

   -- The beatstick.  In A Wicked Age (in my imperfect understanding) is
      based on a mechanic where if you beat somebody at the dice, you offer
      them a choice: agree to your desired fictional outcome, or take a hit
      from the beatstick (i.e. reduce their stats.)  This is a rather
      ingenious way to tie in-character fiction negotiation to mechanics
      in a flexible but systematically enforceable way.  I think the Oath
      mechanic in Agon is doing something similar, actually -- it gives a
      way in a purely gamist game for fiction negotiation to be something
      other than color.

      (Is Trust in The Mountain Witch maybe another expression of this
       idea?)
 
      So let's steal that idea.  We'll say the game has a concept of
      "promises".  A promise can be offered in a trade or staked on the
      outcome of a PvP conflict roll, or just given.  The promise is just
      some text and maybe a duration, and it is displayed on both character's
      sheets.  (Publically?  Or just to those involved?)
      The promis-ee gets an interface that lets them click either "Promise
      Completed!" or else "Promise Broken!".  Either one makes the Promise
      go away, but "Promise Broken" replaces it with a CURSE on the promiser.
      The curse lasts until either the duration of the original promise
      expires, or until the promise-ee clicks the "Forgive" button.

      This can be backed up with some kind of fictional conceit about how
      in this world, promises are magically enforced, and oathbreakers are
      cursed to have the most horrible luck until they get forgiveness.

      (Or in a modern or sci-fi world, there's actually a legal system
       instead of magical enforcement of promises.  Breach of contract
       means the NPCs in town won't deal with you until you make amends.)

      On the other hand, if the promise is completed, maybe both players
      involved get a gold star for it.  The gold star is meaningless except
      socially.  Also, records of completed and broken quests are permanent

      Now, the abuse that I see this open to is that the asshole player
      accepts promises from people, and after getting what he wants from them,
      curses them anyway.  Maybe this can be referred to arbitration by the
      Game Masters?

   -- Note that any sort of Quest mechanic can be entirely replaced by just
      giving someone "I promise to complete this quest" in exchange for
      "I promise to give you half my kindgom when you complete the quest" etc.

   -- Maybe you don't go up levels at all?  Instead, the only way to be
      "more effective" in the game is to have more players who are willing
      to help you with challenges (either because they're your friends or
      because you beat or bribed promises out of them.)
      Other forms of 'progression' are increased access to a range of
      options (e.g. more magic cards, rather than stronger magic cards),
      increased world knowledge, and increased *player skill*.



